{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2511
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Geneva;\f1\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red24\green24\blue24;
}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0\c80000;\cssrgb\c100000\c100000\c100000;\cssrgb\c12157\c12157\c12157;
}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww13260\viewh17320\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs28 \cf2 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Hospitals/ Client Background:\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f1 \cf4 My hospital of choice is UT Dell Seton Medical Center (Dell Med),\'a0which is a leading medical center in Austin serving central Texas, including a Level 1 Trauma Center. Dell Med is a jointly supported Medical Center by the University of Texas as both a Medical School and as part of the Ascension Seton Hospital System.
\f0 \cf2 \
\

\f1 \cf4 Client Abstract/ Problem Description:\cb1 \
\cb3 With the recent epidemic of the novel coronavirus (COVID-19) in China and its spread to other countries across the globe, including a few US states, we have been following instructions from the Center for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC). We\'92ve assembled isolation units, trained our staff on safety materials and quarantine procedures. With the likelihood of human to human transfer of the virus, we feel it would be prudent to take a more critical look at how to differentiate COVID-19 from influenza, the common cold and other viruses. So, we would like to develop a Data Science solution that could use data made available outside the medical center.\'a0 Depending on disease occurrence in Central Texas, we could in theory look at our real world patient data from our Electronic Medical Record system (EMR) for enhancing the solution or being used as test data.\
\cb1 \
\cb3 Business Understanding:\cb1 \
\cb3 Many of the symptoms associated with COVID-19 are similar to influenza, such as coughing, high fever and respiratory issues. While preventative measures, such as washing hands, avoiding contact with sick individuals and covering nose/ mouth when sneezing are useful to express, they are insufficient at determining who should be tested and how to diagnose. So the question we want to answer is:\
\cb1 \
\cb3 - Who should be tested and to what extent?\
\cb1 \
\cb3 Specifically, we need to understand if there is data available that can help ascertain key symptoms, combination of symptoms and other variables that can be used to assess whether patient is low, medium or high risk for COVID-19. Depending on the risk and symptoms, determining the type or types of testing that should be employed (fluid swab, blood lab and imaging) should also be determined.\'a0The audience/ user of this solution would be the clinicians (nurses, doctors\'85) providing care for new and existing patients.
\f0 \cf2  
\f1 \cf4 The data related to the question could be:\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf4 \cb1 \
\cb3 - What variables should be assessed for if testing is appropriate?\cb1 \
\cb3 [coughing, sneezing, runny nose, fever, upper respiratory issues, lower respiratory issues, difficulty breathing...]\
\cb1 \
\cb3 - What conditions necessitate which test is needed?\cb1 \
\cb3 [coughing, sneezing, runny nose, fever, upper respiratory issues, lower respiratory issues, difficulty breathing...]\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0 \cf2 The key question we want to answer is:\
\
- What is the problem that you are trying to solve?\
\
Analytic Approach:\
Understanding that we are talking about determining whether a patient should be tested, i.e. yes/ no, we might want to consider a decision tree or considering predictive modeling. It really depends on what data is available, how it contrasts influenza/ other viruses. If the data also includes types of testing as well as severity and mortality, then we should also consider analyzing the relationship for determining value of testing as related to report turnaround and cost. Ideally we want a method for measuring whether implementing said solution makes a difference in diagnosing of COVID-19. The key question we want to answer is:\
\
- How can you use data to answer the question?\
\
Data Requirements:\
During this phase it is important to determine what kind of data is needed, specifically symptoms, lab results, testing methods and other content related to diagnoses being considered as part of the solution. The next dimension is determining where the data is coming from, such as the CDC, China, Johns Hopkins or Dell Med EMR. This phase should better determine whether a decision tree or predictive modeling is feasible. The key questions we want to answer are:\
\
- What data do you need to answer the question?\
- Where is the data coming from and how will you get it?\
\
Data Collection, Understanding and Preparation:\
During this next phase, we will be working with the data itself. We will collect it, understand how it is assembled, get rid of bad data and manipulate it based on our needs. This could be removing data that would lead to false positives (type 1 errors) and false negatives (type II, non-rejection of false null hypothesis). The data may exist in CSV format or maybe accessible via a relational database over JDBC.  Most likely the data will be pulled into a Jupyter Notebook, using Python, for working with the data.  The data can be visualized using Scala, both are available in IBM Watson Studio. This phase may iterate until the answers sought and the data is appropriately prepared. The key questions we want answered are:\
\
- Is the data collected representative of the problem to be solved?\
- What additional work is required to manipulate and work with the data?\
\
Modeling, Evaluation, Deployment and Feedback:\
This last set of steps in the methodology are around deriving an answer and validating that the solution answers the question defined during Business Understanding. This may include visualizing the data in different ways to more accurately answer when someone should be tested and using what methods. If outside data is being used for modeling the solution, can a training set be assembled for the hospital\'92s EMR. If all things prove out, then the solution is deployed for a set of clinicians to use and provide feedback. The IBM Watson Studio spark environment can be used for the modeling and evaluation of this solution. It includes Spark, PySpark (Python) and Scala. For statistical analysis RStudio can be used. This feedback will be gathered and used to adjust the model along with any other enhancements that are determined a priority. The key questions we strive to answer during this phase are:\
\
- In what way can the data be visualized to get to the answer that is required?\
- Does the model used really answer the initial question or does it need to be adjusted?\
- Can we put the model into practice?\
- Can we get constructive feedback into answering the question?\
\
\
\
}